
Tommy Emmanuel vs Music Practice Inc

    https://youtu.be/PLIZZ9lIlwg?t=587

    When I first heard this interview last year I really appreciated the
    emphasis on no free lunches: learning a song requires diligent effort; you
    have to grind it out, small bit by small bit. Get your ass to the woodshed
    and don't come out for a good long while.

    But what strikes me today is how Emmanuel's advice cuts sharply against
    the conventional wisdom on optimal practice strategy (Molly Gebrian, Noa
    Kageyama, Charles Szczepanek, and other teachers in the vein). I have
    learned a lot from their thinking (my post's title should be read as
    friendly teasing, not mockery), but I also know enough about quantitative
    research to see the weak foundation upon which many of their empirical
    claims rest. Academic quibbles aside, Tommy Emmanuel rejects one of their
    core pieces of advice – namely, interleaved rather than blocked practice
    (and related concepts).

    Emmanuel says screw all of that: when you learn a new song, it must
    consume you; your focus must be dogged, exclusive. Which approach is
    optimal? I have no idea. And I have serious doubts that Gebrian-style
    research on this subject proves very much. But Emmanuel's statement
    implies an essential aspect of mastery: if you want to learn something
    difficult, it must obsess you — a kind of mental illness channelled in
    productive directions.

    Where do I stand on all of this? Nowhere firm, but my working theory is
    that both sides of this debate can teach you important things. The right
    balance probably varies according to your personality and abilities.

Why most guitar players should focus:

    Justin Sandercoe
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gse5EuM_HWU

Craftsmanship and an the case for AI optimism

    https://longreads.com/2026/03/26/craft-in-defiance-of-ai-peter-wayne-moe/

    I can relate very much to the quest for craftsmanship in the essay but all of
    the talk about AI and academia strikes me as backwards. For two reasons:

    (1) Most students have long had other priorities. I did all of the academic
    things, worked at universities for two decades. I can assure you that most
    college students in my history classes in the 80s and 90s were largely checked
    out — well before smart phones, AI, or whatever the next bogeyman will be.
    Academically interested and capable students, willing to take the material
    seriously — maybe 10% of my students in the mid-90s. Those are just anecdotes,
    but they're mine, so I tend to believe them.

    (2) LLMs have made me wish I were 27 again. I started a PhD in history in
    1992. LLMs like Claude Code would have assisted my learning (as a student) and
    supercharged my research agenda (on my dissertation). It's certainly possible
    to use an LLM to take the lazy way out: I'm sure the author is reporting true
    observations of what many students are doing with the technology to write
    papers, do homework, etc — in effect, the cheat themselves, mostly, out of an
    education. But you don't have to do it that way. I'm just about to finish a
    piece of technical writing. I did the writing myself in the narrow sense — no
    cheating involve. But Claude Code was a valuable consultant along the way:
    like having a pretty good writing advisor who never sleeps on speed-dial. Need
    some alternative phrasing ideas? Thinking of 3 ways to say something and want
    to bounce the options off of somebody else? LLMs helpful at that stuff.

